# T4-Remote-File-List-Sync
The task is to write a base for a remote file synchronisation system using Java serialization. In this task you only synchronise the information about the files (names, modification dates, etc.) between two ends, not the files themselves (contents).
Your client program collects information about all files in a given directory through the java.io.File class, stores them in a suitable data structure, for example a set of files – Set<java.io.File>.
The client then establishes a connection with a file synchronisation server and sends the serialized list of files to the server along with the client identifier.
After de-serializing the list, the server then checks its records (again, a simple file or RAM stored data is fine) of files for the given client and identifies the files that are new or different (the comparison of two file sets can be done by suitable API classes and calls from the Java collections library).
The list of the files that the server identified as new (had no knowledge of before) is sent back to the client (again using serialization).
Normally, the client would initialize the backup procedure for the new files, for this task it is sufficient that you simply print the list of the new files that need to be backed up. And just to repeat and clarify the often-reoccurring question: it is not part of this task to send any file contents over, only the information about the files so that the client knows which files to back up.
Hint: As a first step you can make your server local and just send the serialized list through a simple method call passing on the serialization stream, rather than building up a proper TCP/IP connection.
You can then expand this method to have the data stream over a network connection.
Note: getting a list of files using the File class on OS-es supporting soft links (Mac or Linux) can be tricky. Soft linked directories can (and do when we talk about the complete file system!) generally make file structures circular in which case a naive file information retrieval procedure would not terminate. On these systems it is wise and advisable to skip files that are soft links. For that you will need to use some classes and methods from the New IO Java package – java.nio.
Consult Google on how to do this. Or, to quickly avoid the problem - simply run your program on a test directory that does not have any soft links to start with.
